---
title: Adventure works
layout: post
post-image: "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Hemastays/portfolio/gh-pages/assets/images/Adventuresales_Order.png"
description: Conducted an in-depth analysis of Adventure Works sales data to derive meaningful insights and identify trends. The project involved hypothesis testing, profit analysis, sales analysis, and order analysis to provide a comprehensive understanding of the company's performance.
tags:
- how to
- setup
- theme
---

## Overview
Conducted an in-depth analysis of Adventure Works sales data to derive meaningful insights and identify trends. The project involved hypothesis testing, profit analysis, sales analysis, and order analysis to provide a comprehensive understanding of the company's performance.

{:target="blank"}
###### Source Code : [`Jekyll Docs`](https://jekyllrb.com/docs/)

## Hypothesis Testing
### Hypothesis - Bikes Category as a Profitable Venture

Proposed hypothesis: The bikes category significantly contributes to Adventure Works' profit and sales growth.
Year-over-year analysis and monthly revenue growth comparison were utilized.

### Findings
* Profit Analysis
Visualized profit analysis by month and financial year for the bike category.
Identified a dip in profit across all financial years in June, with May 2020 being the most profitable ($781K) and June 2020 recording the lowest profit ($72K).
Subcategory drill-down highlighted Touring bikes as the most profitable in 2020.
Variance analysis revealed higher variance in 2018 and no profit in 2020, resulting in a negative variance.
* Sales Analysis
Confirmed consistent year-over-year growth in bike sales.
Highlighted a drop in bike sales in February and November 2019 compared to the previous financial year.
Annual sales for bikes exhibited a continuous upward trend, and the subcategory analysis indicated a 99% increase in new bike sales.
* Order Analysis
Revealed high order volumes in February, July, and November.
Introduced a new subcategory, Touring bikes, in FY2020, contributing positively to order volume and count.

### Key Takeaways and Inference
The positive hypothesis that the bikes category significantly contributes to profit and sales growth is supported by the analysis.
May 2020 recorded the highest profit, with Touring bikes emerging as a key contributor.
Bike sales consistently increased year-over-year, with the introduction of new bikes further boosting performance.
Strategic insights derived from order analysis, emphasizing peak order months and the impact of introducing new subcategories.
### Next Steps:
Highlight the strategic implications of these findings, propose actionable recommendations, and demonstrate your ability to turn data insights into business decisions. Consider presenting the information through interactive dashboards or visuals to enhance the portfolio's visual appeal.